Name: Brennan Wood

Number of elements: 10000

**Time in seconds**

Bubble Sort
Sorted: 2.5
Reversed: 5.7
Random: 4.6

Bubble Sort Early Exit
Sorted: 0.00051
Reversed: 6.0
Random: 4.7

Selection Sort
Sorted: 1.9
Reversed: 5.9
Random: 4.5

Insertion Sort
Sorted: 0.00091
Reversed: 6.0
Random: 4.5

Merge Sort
Sorted: 0.019
Reversed: 5.7
Random: 4.6

Questions to answer:
1) What was the worst case scenario for any sorting technique?

    Most scenarios were close to the same numbers (becuase of how small the times were)
    The worst case scenario was definitely the reversed list, for any of the techniques
    From the data, we can see that it was wost for Bubble Sort (with and without early exit)
    and for Insertion Sort

2) The first 3 sorts have the same runtime of O(n^2). Why were the times different? Why would one be more efficient than the others?
    
    The bubble sort with the early exit technically has the same runtime as the others, but becuase it has the early exit,
    it has the opportunity to take that shortcut. Becuase of this, the MAX runtime is the same as the regula bubble sort,
    but it has the ability to take a much much shorter time

3) Why was merge sort so much more efficient?

    From the data I have it doesn't appead to be much faster at all except for the reverse case scenario.
    The reason it's faster in the reverse scenario is because it checks each set that it has been split into 
    and then it can just swap their order instead of individually trying to go through the items.

4) The built-in sorting technique for most programming languages is known as TimSort.
This is a merge sort until the arrays have fewer than 10 elements, then it does an insertion sort. Why would this be useful?

    This could be useful for systems where your memory or processing power is limited, becuase you don't need to go through 
    all of the effor to split each list of 10 into lists of 1. The time that you save by not splitting up these lists
    outweighs the time you lose by srting lists of 10 instead of lists of 1

5) What issues can you see with a recursive sorting technique like merge sort?

    As mentioned earlier, it could take up more storage space than the other sorting functions becuase it has to keep track
    of a lot more lists than the other functions do.